Add documentation for EL task (#12988)
explosion/spaCy: website/docs/api/large-language-models.mdx

An LLM component is implemented through the `LLMWrapper` class. It is accessible
through a generic `llm`
[component factory](https://spacy.io/usage/processing-pipelines#custom-components-factories)
as well as through task-specific component factories: `llm_ner`, `llm_spancat`,

> `llm_rel`, `llm_textcat`, `llm_sentiment` and `llm_summarization`.

Reviewer: Add entity_linker factory

Author: Done in https://github.com/explosion/spaCy/pull/12988/commits/c59f10cf1df55f3f3d20cdf90d7f60ef335e8ea2.

base (KB). The EL task prompts the LLM to choose a shortlist of (the most
likely) candidates from the KB. How this KB looks like and stores data can be
arbitrary.

Note that the documents run through the entity linking task are expected to have
recognized entities in `.ents`. This can be achieved by - prior to running the
EL task - running the [NER task](#ner), a trained spaCy NER model or by setting
your docs' entities manually.

In order to be able to pull data from the KB, an object implementing the
`CandidateSelector` protocol has to be provided. This requires two functions:
(1) `__call__()` to fetch candidate entities for entity mentions in the text
(assumed to be available in `Doc.ents`) and (2) `get_entity_description()` to
fetch descriptions for any given entity ID. Descriptions can be empty, but
ideally provide more context for entities stored in the KB.

`spacy-llm` provides a `CandidateSelector` implementation
(`spacy.CandidateSelector.v1`) that leverages a spaCy pipeline with an
`entity_linking` component to select candidates. Note that this pipeline doesn't
have to provide a trained EL model, merely its default (or custom) candidate
selection capabilities.

> #### spacy.EL.v1 {id="el-v1"}

Reviewer: Isn't this actually called `spacy.EntityLinker.v1`  in the PR? We need to make sure we're consistent throughout (I also found a reference to "EntityLinking" in the other PR)

Author: Ugh, good catch. Fixed in https://github.com/explosion/spaCy/pull/12988/commits/fa3645d3876cf83ce9205cd2542b06270d40763e.

path = "summarization_examples.yml"
```

### EL (Entity Linking) {id="nel"}

The EL links recognized entities (see [NER](#ner)) to those in a knowledge base

> (KB). The EL task prompts the LLM to select the most likely candidates from the
> KB, whose structure can be arbitrary.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
(KB). The EL task prompts the LLM to select the most likely candidate from the
KB, whose structure can be arbitrary.
```
It selects a single most likely candidate, right?

Note that the documents processed by the entity linking task are expected to
have recognized entities in their `.ents` attribute. This can be achieved by
either running the [NER task](#ner), using a trained spaCy NER model or setting
the entities manually prior to running the EL task.

In order to be able to pull data from the KB, an object implementing the
`CandidateSelector` protocol has to be provided. This requires two functions:
(1) `__call__()` to fetch candidate entities for entity mentions in the text
(assumed to be available in `Doc.ents`) and (2) `get_entity_description()` to
fetch descriptions for any given entity ID. Descriptions can be empty, but
ideally provide more context for entities stored in the KB.

`spacy-llm` provides a `CandidateSelector` implementation

> (`spacy.CandidateSelector.v1`) that leverages a a spaCy knowledge base -as used

Reviewer: ```suggestion
(`spacy.CandidateSelector.v1`) that leverages a spaCy knowledge base -as used
```

> in an `entity_linking` component - to select candidates. This knowledge base can

Reviewer: ```suggestion
in an `entity_linking` component- to select candidates. This knowledge base can
```

Author: Fixed in 99f23e87bd3878b303d4a8b62023bcd7899950b3.

Supports zero- and few-shot prompting. Relies on a configurable component
suggesting viable entities before letting the LLM pick the most likely
candidate.

> #### Example config for spacy.EntityLinker.v1
>
> ```ini
> [paths]
> el_nlp = null
>
> ...
>
> [components.llm.task]
> @llm_tasks = "spacy.EntityLinker.v1"
>
> [initialize]
> [initialize.components]
> [initialize.components.llm]
> [initialize.components.llm.candidate_selector]
> @llm_misc = "spacy.CandidateSelector.v1"
>
> # Load a KB from a KB file. For loading KBs from spaCy pipelines see spacy.KBObjectLoader.v1.
> [initialize.components.llm.candidate_selector.kb_loader]
> @llm_misc = "spacy.KBFileLoader.v1"
> # Path to knowledge base .yaml file.
> path = ${paths.el_kb}
> ```

| Argument              | Description                                                                                                                                                                          |
| --------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |

> | `template`            | Custom prompt template to send to LLM model. Defaults to [ner.v3.jinja](https://github.com/explosion/spacy-llm/blob/main/spacy_llm/tasks/templates/ner.v3.jinja). ~~str~~            |

Reviewer: TODO: fix copy/paste error

| `nlp_path`        | Path to serialized NLP pipeline. If None, path will be guessed. ~~Optional[Union[Path, str]]~~                                                                                                                                      |
| `desc_path`       | Path to file with descriptions for entities. ~~int~~                                                                                                                                                                                |
| `ent_desc_reader` | Entity description reader. Defaults to an internal method expecting a CSV file without header row, with ";" as delimiters, and with two columns - one for the entitys' IDs, one for their descriptions. ~~Optional[EntDescReader]~~ |

##### spacy.KBFileLoader.v1 {id="kb-file-loader-v1"}

Adheres to the `InMemoryLookupKBLoader` interface required by
[`spacy.CandidateSelector.v1`](#candidate-selector-v1). Loads a knowledge base
from a knowledge base file. The KB .yaml file has to stick to the following
format:

```yaml
entities:

>   # The key should be whatever ID identifies this entity in your knowledge base.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  # The key should be whatever ID identifies this entity uniquely in your knowledge base.
```

  ID1:
      name: "..."
      desc: "..."
  ID2:
      ...
# Data on aliases in your knowledge base - e. g. "Apple" for the entity "Apple Inc.".
aliases:
  - alias: "..."
    # List of all entities that this alias refers to.
    entities: ["ID1", "ID2", ...]
    # Optional: prior probabilities that this alias refers to the n-th entity in the "entities" attribute.
    probabilities: [0.5, 0.2, ...]
  - alias: "..."
    entities: [...]
    probabilities: [...]
  ...
```

See

> [here](https://github.com/explosion/spacy-llm/blob/main/spacy_llm/tests/tasks/misc/el_kb_data.yml)

Reviewer: This link is broken and should refer to https://github.com/explosion/spacy-llm/blob/develop/usage_examples/el_openai/el_kb_data.yml instead, or rather the version of it on `main` once `develop` is merged in.

Author: The link will work once `develop` has been merged into `main` again. Since this PR will be merged into `docs/llm_develop`, I think that should be fine?

Reviewer: I think it's still better to refer to the file in the `usage_examples` than the one in the test suite, though.

for a toy example of how such a KB file might look like.

> #### Example config for spacy.KBFileLoader.v1
>
> ```ini
> [initialize.components.llm.candidate_selector.kb_loader]

> > @llm_misc = "spacy.KBObjectLoader.v1"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> @llm_misc = "spacy.KBFileLoader.v1"
```
(is everything else still correct?)

path = "summarization_examples.yml"
```

### EL (Entity Linking) {id="nel"}

> The EL links recognized entities (see [NER](#ner)) against a provided knowledge

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The EL links recognized entities (see [NER](#ner)) to those in a knowledge
```

> base (KB). The EL task prompts the LLM to choose a shortlist of (the most
> likely) candidates from the KB. How this KB looks like and stores data can be
> arbitrary.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
base (KB). The EL task prompts the LLM to select the most likely 
candidates from the KB, whose structure can be arbitrary.
```

> Note that the documents run through the entity linking task are expected to have
> recognized entities in `.ents`. This can be achieved by - prior to running the
> EL task - running the [NER task](#ner), a trained spaCy NER model or by setting
> your docs' entities manually.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Note that the documents processed by the entity linking task are expected to have
recognized entities in their `.ents` attribute. This can be achieved by either running the 
[NER task](#ner), using a trained spaCy NER model or setting the entities manually prior
to running the EL task.
```

In order to be able to pull data from the KB, an object implementing the
`CandidateSelector` protocol has to be provided. This requires two functions:
(1) `__call__()` to fetch candidate entities for entity mentions in the text
(assumed to be available in `Doc.ents`) and (2) `get_entity_description()` to
fetch descriptions for any given entity ID. Descriptions can be empty, but
ideally provide more context for entities stored in the KB.

`spacy-llm` provides a `CandidateSelector` implementation
(`spacy.CandidateSelector.v1`) that leverages a spaCy pipeline with an
`entity_linking` component to select candidates. Note that this pipeline doesn't

> have to provide a trained EL model, merely its default (or custom) candidate

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
have to provide a trained EL model but merely its default (or custom) candidate
```

selection capabilities.

#### spacy.EntityLinker.v1 {id="el-v1"}

Supports zero- and few-shot prompting.

> #### Example config
>
> ```ini
> [components.llm.task]
> @llm_tasks = "spacy.EntityLinker.v1"
>
> [initialize]
> [initialize.components]
> [initialize.components.llm]
> [initialize.components.llm.candidate_selector]
> @llm_misc = "spacy.CandidateSelector.v1"
> nlp_path = ${paths.el_nlp}
> desc_path = ${paths.el_desc}
> ```

| Argument              | Description                                                                                                                                                                             |
| --------------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |

> | `template`            | Custom prompt template to send to LLM model. Defaults to [ner.v3.jinja](https://github.com/explosion/spacy-llm/blob/main/spacy_llm/tasks/templates/ner.v3.jinja). ~~str~~               |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| `template`            | Custom prompt template sent to the LLM model. Defaults to [ner.v3.jinja](https://github.com/explosion/spacy-llm/blob/main/spacy_llm/tasks/templates/ner.v3.jinja). ~~str~~               |
```

Reviewer: As a  parameter, you're giving the template that needs to be send to the LLM, so I'd keep the original phrasing here.

| `parse_responses`     | Callable for parsing LLM responses for this task. Defaults to the internal parsing method for this task. ~~Optional[TaskResponseParser[EntityLinkerTask]]~~                             |
| `prompt_example_type` | Type to use for fewshot examples. Defaults to `ELExample`. ~~Optional[Type[FewshotExample]]~~                                                                                           |

> | `examples`            | Optional callable that reads a file containing task examples for few-shot learning. If None is passed, then zero-shot learning will be used. Defaults to `None`. ~~ExamplesConfigType~~ |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| `examples`            | Optional callable that reads a file containing task examples for few-shot learning. If `None` is passed, zero-shot learning will be used. Defaults to `None`. ~~ExamplesConfigType~~ |
```

| `scorer`              | Scorer function. Defaults to the metric used by spaCy to evaluate entity linking performance. ~~Optional[Scorer]~~                                                                      |

##### spacy.CandidateSelector.v1 {id="candidate-selector-v1"}

`spacy.CandidateSelector.v1` is an implementation of the `CandidateSelector`
protocol required by [`spacy.EntityLinker.v1`](#el-v1). The built-in candidate
selector method leverages a spaCy pipeline with an entity linking component. The

> pipeline's EL component's candidate selection capabilities are used to select

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
EL component's candidate selection capabilities are used to select
```

the most likely entity candidates for the specified mentions.

> ##### Example config
>
> ```ini
> [initialize]
> [initialize.components]
> [initialize.components.llm]
> [initialize.components.llm.candidate_selector]
> @llm_misc = "spacy.CandidateSelector.v1"
> nlp_path = ${paths.el_nlp}
> desc_path = ${paths.el_desc}
> top_n = 3
> ```

| Argument            | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              |
| ------------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `nlp_path`          | Path to stored spaCy pipeline. ~~Union[Path, str]~~                                                                                                                                                                                                      |

> | `desc_path`         | Path to .csv file with descriptions for entities. Has to have two columns with the first one being the entity ID, the second one being the description. The entity ID has to match with the entity ID in the stored knowledge base. ~~Union[Path, str]~~ |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| `desc_path`         | Path to `.csv` file with descriptions for entities. Must have two columns: entity ID and description. The entity ID has to match with the entity ID in the stored knowledge base. ~~Union[Path, str]~~ |
```

> | `el_component_name` | Name of EL component in spaCy pipeline loaded from `nlp_path`. Defaults to `entity_linker`. ~~str~~                                                                                                                                                      |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| `el_component_name` | Name of the EL component in the pipeline loaded from `nlp_path`. Defaults to `entity_linker`. ~~str~~                                                                                                                                                      |
```

> | `top_n`             | Top n candidates to include in prompt. Defaults to 5. ~~int~~                                                                                                                                                                                            |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| `top_n`             | Top-n candidates to include in the prompt. Defaults to 5. ~~int~~                                                                                                                                                                                            |
```

> | `ent_desc_reader`   | Entity description reader. Defaults to an internal method expecting a CSV file without header row, with ";" as delimiters, and with two columns - one for the entitys' IDs, one for their descriptions. ~~Optional[Scorer]~~                             |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| `ent_desc_reader`   | Entity description reader. Defaults to an internal method that expects a CSV file in the following format: No header row, ";" as delimiters, two columns - one for the entitys' IDs and one for their descriptions. ~~Optional[Scorer]~~                             |
```

> | `ent_desc_reader`   | Entity description reader. Defaults to an internal method expecting a CSV file without header row, with ";" as delimiters, and with two columns - one for the entitys' IDs, one for their descriptions. ~~Optional[Scorer]~~                             |

Reviewer 2: The type of the reader appears to be incorrect here.
